Foundry Versioning Policy (#18804)
ethereum-optimism/optimism: packages/contracts-bedrock/book/src/policies/foundry-upgrades.md

# Foundry Versioning Policy

This document outlines the process for proposing and implementing Foundry version updates in the
OP Stack codebase.

## Unified Foundry Version

The OP Stack codebase maintains a single, unified Foundry version across all components. This ensures
consistency, simplifies maintenance, and reduces the risk of version-related issues. Foundry is a
critical dependency in our supply chain, and if compromised, it could result in draining the bridge.

**Important**: New Foundry versions must not be introduced to any part of the codebase without
going through the formal version update proposal process outlined in this document.

## Update Process

> 1. **Minimum Delay Period**: A new Foundry version must be at least 1 month old before it can be

Reviewer: Is 1 month sufficient? Do we typically care about features this quickly?

Author: i felt 6 months was too long to wait tbh. would you say 3 months is good ?

Author: implemented this in this commit https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/18804/commits/efcf33943d4f0171acb21adb731afc4295993d20

Reviewer 2: We should add some rationale to the doc for whatever timeframe we choose, that way if someone complains about the duration in the future, we don't say "Hmm yeah I can't remember why it's three months. Let's just make it one month". There are a few considerations here, such as how long might a vulnerability typically be latent in code before being detected or exploited, historically how quickly do we need new Foundry features (not very quickly given the age of our current foundry version), etc

Author: done here https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/18804/commits/1504272326324786f7da2bae186d50e7f47ef9fa, i believe 3 months is enough for a stable release to be used widely and most bugs if any to be detected. also most features of the stable release might have been in used already via nightly releases

   considered for adoption.

> 2. Only stable releases are recommended to be proposed for adoption. For upgrades to nightly builds, there must be a feature addition that improves the quality of our codebase considerably or a bug fix that addresses a non-trivial security vulnerability.

Reviewer: I think nightly builds should *only* be allowed for security vulnerabilities or bug fixes for issues that block our work in a meaningful way. I can't think of a feature that would so meaningfully improve the codebase that we cannot wait for a stable release.

Author: true i agree, also want to add that for these nightly build updates specifically for bug fixes, we should not have to wait a month before updating it

Author: added this in this commit https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/18804/commits/efcf33943d4f0171acb21adb731afc4295993d20

3. **Proposal Submission**: Before any Foundry version upgrades are made, a detailed proposal must
   be submitted as a pull request to the [`ethereum-optimism/design-docs`][1] repository in a
   `foundry/` subfolder, following the standardized format outlined below. This applies to the monorepo, superchain-ops, and any other repositories that use Foundry.

> 4. **Review and Approval**: A dedicated review panel will assess the proposal based on the

Reviewer: Let's explicitly identify who fits on this panel. Given that this happens infrequently I am fine with it being any 2 members of the Security team.

Author: fixed here https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/18804/commits/efcf33943d4f0171acb21adb731afc4295993d20

   following criteria:
   - Is the Foundry version at least 1 month old?
   - Does the proposed upgrade provide clear value to the codebase?
   - Do any new features or bug fixes pose an unnecessary risk to the codebase?
   - Are there any security vulnerabilities addressed by this version?

> 5. **Implementation**: If the proposal receives unanimous approval from the review panel, the

Reviewer: The PR that implements the bump MUST include a reference to the approved, merged design document that approves that foundry version for usage. Please also update the graphite prompt to review for this for any PRs that change the foundry version.

Author: fixed

# Foundry Versioning Policy

This document outlines the process for proposing and implementing Foundry version updates in the
OP Stack codebase.

## Unified Foundry Version

The OP Stack codebase maintains a single, unified Foundry version across all components. This ensures
consistency, simplifies maintenance, and reduces the risk of version-related issues. Foundry is a

> critical dependency in our supply chain, and if compromised, it could result in draining the bridge.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this a bit more vague since this is public 
```suggestion
critical dependency in our supply chain, and if compromised can have severe consequences.
```

**Important**: New Foundry versions must not be introduced to any part of the codebase without
going through the formal version update proposal process outlined in this document.

## Update Process

1. **Minimum Delay Period**: A new Foundry version must be at least 3 month old before it can be
   considered for adoption.
2. Only stable releases are recommended to be proposed for adoption.

> 3. Nightly builds must only be considered for adoption if it includes a bug fix that addresses a non-trivial security vulnerability. This path does not need to follow the 3 month delay period.

Reviewer 2: Are there any other requirements / processes to follow when going the nightly route? Or are there some different fields to fill out in the template?

Author: nope, just filling the bug fix in the `notable bug fixes` section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Nightly builds must only be considered for adoption if it includes a bug fix that addresses a non-trivial security vulnerability. This path does not need to follow the 3 month delay period, but must fill out the `notable bug fixes` section with rationale for why a nightly release is required.
```

5. **Review and Approval**: A dedicated review panel that must consist of **at least 2 members of the security team** will assess the proposal based on the
   following criteria:
   - Is the Foundry version at least 3 month old?
   - Does the proposed upgrade provide clear value to the codebase?
   - Do any new features or bug fixes pose an unnecessary risk to the codebase?
   - Are there any security vulnerabilities addressed by this version?
6. **Implementation**: If the proposal receives unanimous approval from the review panel, the
   Foundry version upgrade will be implemented across the entire OP Stack codebase, including:
   - The monorepo (`mise.toml` and `op-deployer/pkg/deployer/forge/version.json`)
   - The `superchain-ops` repository
7. The PR that implements the bump MUST include a reference to the approved, merged design document that approves that foundry version for usage.

## Proposal Submission Guidelines

To submit a Foundry version upgrade proposal, create a new pull request to the
[`ethereum-optimism/design-docs`][1] repository, adding a new file in the `foundry/` subfolder.

> Please use a format similar to the [Foundry update proposal format][2], adapted for Foundry.

Reviewer 2: The linked template is already adapted for Foundry right? 
```suggestion
Please use the [Foundry update proposal format][2].
```

Ensure that all sections are filled out comprehensively. Incomplete proposals may be delayed or
rejected.

## Review Process

The review panel will evaluate each proposal based on the criteria mentioned in the "Review and
Approval" section above. They may request additional information or clarifications if needed.

## Implementation

If approved, the Foundry version upgrade will be implemented across the entire OP Stack codebase.
This process will be managed by the development team to ensure consistency and minimize potential
issues. The upgrade will apply to all components simultaneously, including:

- `mise.toml`: Update `forge`, `cast`, and `anvil` version entries
- `op-deployer/pkg/deployer/forge/version.json`: Update the `forge` version and corresponding
  checksums for all supported platforms
- `superchain-ops` repository: Update Foundry version configuration

> All version updates must be synchronized across these locations to maintain consistency.

Reviewer 2: We should set an expectation here that the same person who proposes the version bump is also responsible for opening the PRs to the monorepo and superchain-ops to bump the Foundry version. This may be what you mean by "managed by the development team" but I'm not sure and just want to be explicit here.

Author: yeah, improved the grammar here https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/pull/18804/commits/1504272326324786f7da2bae186d50e7f47ef9fa
